Release notes are an important part of the open source process. I’ve been thinking about these a lot recently, and I’ve assembled some thoughts on how to do a better … Sponsored by: exe.dev — ssh, root, https. Real VMs, not sandboxes. Edge-injected secrets so you can yolo. 0→1? ½→1! Release notes are an important part of the open source process. I’ve been thinking about these a lot recently, and I’ve assembled some thoughts on how to do a better job with them. Write release notes . Seriously—if you want people to take advantage of the work you have been doing to improve your projects, you need to tell them about it! Include the date . The date matters a lot, because I want to be able to determine how old a release is—especially important for the dependencies I am using. It’s much more reasonable to assume people will be running as a minimum a version from 3 years ago than one that came out last week. Make sure people can link to the release notes for a version. This can be a page-per-release or an anchor target on the releases page, but it needs to be possible and it needs to be discoverable. There are some projects for which I have to view source on the HTML page to find the anchor links for the version headers—don’t make me do that! For larger releases, break them up with headers . “New features” v.s. “Bug fixes” is a useful distinction. Emphasize the highlights . It can be easy for the highlights of a larger release to get lost in a sea of bullet points. I’ll sometimes include an introductory paragraph highlighting the major themes. Link to relevant documentation from the release notes. If I want to know more about a new feature that should be the best place for me to start. Flesh them out with examples and screenshots . Most release notes are pretty dry—there’s no space limit on these things, so feel free to use all of the tools at your disposal to best answer the question “what has changed and why does this matter to me?” Link to the associated issue thread . If I want to know more about a feature, and you’ve been using issues effectively, the issue link can tell me the entire story of the new feature in more detail than anything else. Credit your contributors! If someone helped build a feature the release notes are a great place to give them a shout out. Once shipped, let people know . I mainly use Twitter for this, but I also write about releases on my blog (in <a href="https://